=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use JSON::Schema::AsType;

    my $schema = JSON::Schema::AsType->new( schema => {
            properties => {
                foo => { type => 'integer' },
                bar => { type => 'object' },
            },
    });

    print 'valid' if $schema->check({ foo => 1, bar => { two => 2 } }); # prints 'valid'

    print $schema->validate_explain({ foo => 'potato', bar => { two => 2 } });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module takes in a JSON Schema (L<http://json-schema.org/>) and turns it into a
L<Type::Tiny> type.

=head2 Strings and Numbers

By default, C<JSON::Schema::AsType> follows the 
JSON schema specs and distinguish between strings and 
numbers.

    value    String?  Number?
      "a"      yes      no 
       1       no       yes
      "1"      yes      no

If you want the usual Perl
behavior and considers the JSON schema type C<String>
to be a superset of C<Number>. That is:

    value    String?  Number?
      "a"      yes      no 
       1       yes      yes
      "1"      yes      yes

Then you can set the object's attribute C<strict_string> to C<0>. 
Setting the global variable C<$JSON::Schema::AsType::strict_string> to C<0>
will work too, but that's deprecated and will eventually go away.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<JSON::Schema>

=item L<JSV>

=back

=cut

=method new( %args )

    my $schema = JSON::Schema::AsType->new( 
		schema => $json_schema 
	);

The class constructor. Accepts the following arguments.

=over

=item schema => \%schema

The JSON schema to compile, as a hashref. 

If not given, will be retrieved from C<uri>. 

An error will be thrown is neither C<schema> nor C<uri> is given.

=item uri => $uri

Optional uri associated with the schema. If not provided, a local 
uri C<http://254.0.0.1:$port> will be assigned to the schema.

=item draft => $version

The version of the JSON-Schema specification to use. Accepts C<3>, C<4>,
C<6>, C<7>, C<2019-09>, and C<2020-12>. Defaults to C<2020-12>. 

=item fetch_remote => $boolean 

If sets to true, allows C<fetch> to retrieve remote schemas. 

=item registry => $registry 

	JSON::Schema::AsType->new(
		schema => {
			'$id' => 'http://localhost/foo',
			$ref => 'bar',
		}
		registry => {
			'http://localhost/bar' => {
				type => 'string'
			}
		}
	);

Registry of schemas that can be used by the current schema. 


=back

=method metaschema 

Returns the metaschema of the current schema, based on its C<draft> version.

=method uri

Returns the URI of the schema, as a L<URI> object.

=method type

Returns the compiled L<Type::Tiny> type.

=method check( $struct )

Returns C<true> if C<$struct> is valid as per the schema.

=method validate( $struct )

Returns a short explanation if C<$struct> didn't validate, nothing otherwise.

=method validate_explain( $struct )

Returns a log explanation if C<$struct> didn't validate, nothing otherwise.

=method validate_schema

Like C<validate>, but validates the schema itself against its specification.

    print $schema->validate_schema;

=method validate_explain_schema

Like C<validate_explain>, but validates the schema itself against its specification.

=method draft

Returns the draft version used by the object.


=method schema

Returns the JSON schema, as a hashref.

=method fetch( $url )

Fetches the schema at the given C<$url> and returns it as a 
L<JSON::Schema::AsType> object. 

=method resolve_reference( $ref )

    my $sub_schema = $schema->resolve_reference( '#/properties/foo' );

    print $sub_schema->check( $struct );

Returns the L<JSON::Schema::AsType> object associated with the 
type referenced by C<$ref>.

=method add_vocabulary($vocabulary_role) 

	$schema->add_vocabulary('Anagram');

Adds a vocabulary to the schema. C<$vocabulary_role> is the name of a role
implementing the vocabulary keywords and behaviors. See the section C<ADDING A
VOCABULARY> for more details.

=head1 ADDING A VOCABULARY 

Vocabularies have been introduced in draft 2019-09 of JSON Schema, but 
they are available in all draft versions in JSON::Schema::AsType. They are,
basically, sets of keywords and behaviors that we want our schema to have
access to. For JSON::Schema::AsType, they are implemented using roles. 

For example, let's say we want to implement a new C<anagram_of> keyword, which
would ensure that a string in the schema is an anagram of a provided word. We
could create the role C<Anagram>:

	package Anagram;

	use feature qw/ signatures module_true/;

	use Type::Tiny;
	use Types::Standard qw/ Str /;
		
	use Moose::Role;

	sub _normalize_word($word) {
		join '', sort split '', $word;
	}

	my $anagram_type = Type::Tiny->new( 
		name => 'Anagram',
		constraint_generator => sub($word) {
			$word = _normalize_word($word);

			return sub {
				_normalize_word($_) eq $word;
			}
		},
		deep_explanation => sub($type,$value,@) {
			my $p = $type->parameters->[0];
			[qq{"$value" is not an anagram of "$p"}];
		},
	);

	sub _keyword_anagram_of($self, $word ) {
		# don't check anagrams on non-strings
		return ~Str | $anagram_type->of($word)
	}

And then, to have a schema use it:

	my $schema = JSON::Schema::AsType->new(
		schema => {
			type => 'string',
			anagram_of => 'meat',
		}
	);

	print $schema->check('team');   # 1
	print $schema->check('tomato'); # undef



=head1 COMPLIANCE TO THE SPECS 

L<JSON::Schema::AsType> passes all the non-optional JSON schema test suites 
L<https://github.com/json-schema-org/JSON-Schema-Test-Suite> excepts 
for the following:

	drafts  |  test file / test 
	------- | ------------------
 	all     | const.json / float and integers are equal up to 64-bit representation limits
	2019-09 | ref.json / refs with relative uris and defs
	2019-09 | ref.json / relative refs with absolute uris and defs
	2020-12 | pattern.json / pattern with Unicode property escape requires unicode mode
	2020-12 | defs.json / * 
	2020-12 | unevaluatedItems / *
	2020-12 | unevaluatedProperties / * 
	2020-12 | dynamicRef / * 
	2020-12 | ref / *

As for the optional test suites, I didn't try to run them yet. Stay tuned. :-)

=head2 Known limitations/design decisions 

=over 

=item JSON Schema assumes a 64-bit representation of floats and integers, 
whereas L<JSON::Schema::AsType> adheres to whatever the local perl supports.

=item For C<pattern>s, L<JSON::Schema::AsType> assumes we always are in
unicode mode.

=item Some hairy C<ref> tests are failing for drafts C<2019-09> and
C<2020-12>. For most common uses, that shouldn't be a problem.

=back
